Newsletters: add 163 (2021-08-25) (#630)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _includes/specials/taproot/en/09-ptlcs.md

spending the transaction back to herself with a signature for her public
key.  Here's that [policy][htlc1 minsc] described in the min.sc language:

```hack
(pk($bob) && sha256($preimage)) || (pk($alice) && older(10))
```

Bob can now initiate a payment for the same amount (perhaps minus fees) to
Carol with basically the same script, only with the parties
[updated][htlc2 minsc] and a lower refund time out.

```hack
(pk($carol) && sha256($preimage)) || (pk($bob) && older(5))
```

Now Carol can claim her payment from Bob using the preimage, which
reveals the preimage to Bob and allows him to claim the payment from
Alice.

### Privacy problems with HTLCs

If the scripts above are published onchain, the reuse of the same hash
and preimage makes it immediately clear that A paid C via
B.  This can be a significant problem for same-chain and cross-chain
coinswaps.  Less obviously, this is also a problem for offchain routing
protocols like LN.  If we imagine a longer routing path where one person
controls multiple hops along the path, they can see the reuse of
the same hash and preimage to determine that some nodes are routing

> nodes, increasing the probabability that the remaining nodes are either

Author: (Sorry about these.  I knew I spell checked the document, but I apparently I forgot to save after.  :facepalm: )

linkability, it may make worse the hash linkability problem by giving
surveillance routing nodes more opportunity to correlate hashes.

An additional problem with HTLCs pre-taproot is that their scripts are
obviously distinct from normal spender scripts.  To a certain degree,
segwit v0 allowed eliminating this problem by making it possible to use
presigned transactions free of txid malleability concerns, allowing
offchain protocols like LN to never publish HTLCs onchain when parties
are cooperating.  But this adds complexity to some single-shot protocols
(e.g. cross-chain coinswaps) and it still requires participants use
somewhat uncommon scripts, such as 2-of-2 multisigs.  This makes it
easier for surveillants to identify usage
patterns and, perhaps, make effective guesses about information specific
to individual users.

### The PTLC solution

In the previous min.sc-style scripts, we had a function that would only
return true if it was passed a particular value chosen in advance (the
preimage).  A [signature adaptor][topic adaptor signatures] is similar
in that it can only be transformed into a valid signature if passed a

> revealed value (the *scalar*).  If we ignore [multisignatures][topic

Author: This language is used for parallelism with the previous sentence.  As an edit, I'll suggest the presence of an unnamed transformation function, but if that's unsatisfactory, let me know and I'll make your suggested change.

> revealed value (the *scalar*).  If we ignore [multisignatures][topic

Reviewer: Seems reasonable. Thanks!

multisignature] for the moment, this allows us to transform the HTLC
scripts from earlier into the following PTLCs:

```hack
(pk($bob) && pk($alice_adaptor)) || (pk($alice) && older(10))
(pk($carol) && pk($bob_adaptor)) || (pk($bob) && older(5))
```

In short, Carol gives Alice the EC *point* for her hidden scalar, Alice
uses that with a public key she chooses and creates a signature adaptor
that she gives to Bob; Bob can use the same point with a public key
he chooses and creates an adaptor he gives to Carol.  Carol reveals the
scalar by transforming Bob's adaptor into a valid signature, claiming
Bob's coins.  Bob recovers the scalar from the valid signature, allowing
him to transform Alice's adaptor into its own valid signature, claiming
her coins.

This solves the linkability problem against onchain surveillance because

> all anyone looking at the block chain sees are a bunch of valid

Reviewer: "all anyone" is a bit of an awkward collision. Perhaps:

```suggestion
anyone looking at the block chain only sees a bunch of valid
```

Author: Made an edit (no complaints), but can you help me understand what the problem was here?  I'm not sure what "collision" means here.  Does it not sound good to you, coming out like *alanyone* or something?

Reviewer: If I read "All John sees are signatures", then it's quite easy to parse. Because "all" and "sees are signatures" are very close together, I can mentally rearrange the sentence to "John only sees signatures" very easily. However, if I replace "John" with "anyone looking at the block chain", then on my first parse I don't know what to attach "all" to. I get as far as "all anyone looking ..." and I get a bit stuck and wonder who "all anyone" is.

It's very obvious what the sentence means on the second parse, but it just interrupted my flow on the first reading. Sorry my first explanation was not very clear.

Author: Thanks for the explanation!  **I see** now that the problem is that I broke one of the rules of good writing here: keeping subjects and verbs close together.  I pushed another small edit improve that.

signatures for distinct public keys.  Third parties can't know that
adaptors were used, much less what scalar those adaptors were based upon.

However, the procedure above doesn't prevent surveilance nodes who participate
in the routing from linking together the payments.  If all the payments
are based on the same scalar, then all the payments are just as linked
as if they used a hashlock and preimage.  This can be fixed by each
routing node choosing their own scalar and then removing its
corresponding point as the payment passes through its node.  Let's
revise our example:

As before, Carol gives Alice the point for her scalar, but this time
Alice also requests a point from Bob.  Alice constructs the adaptor she
gives Bob using the aggregation of both Carol's point and Bob's point.
Bob knows his point, so he's able to subtract that out from the adaptor

> he receives from Alice.  Using the resultant EC point (which Bob doesn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
he receives from Alice.  Using the resultant point (which Bob doesn't
```

(you've used _point_ many times already in this explanation)

know is now just the point Alice originally received from Carol), Bob
constructs the adaptor he gives to Carol.  Carol knows the scalar for
that final point and so converts Bob's adaptor into a valid signature.
As before, Bob recovers Carol's scalar from her signature and uses it
and his own scalar to convert Alice's adaptor into a valid signature.

In the two hops in this path, Alice→Bob and Bob→Carol, two different
EC points and scalars were used, eliminating linkability.  We can extend
this to the longer path we examined when considering HTLCs and see how
this improves privacy:

![Illustration of PTLC lack of linkability problem](/img/posts/2021-07-ln-linkability2.dot.png)

As mentioned last week, schnorr signatures make it easy to compose
adaptor signatures with multisignatures.  This allows us to reduce our
onchain scripts to:

```hack
pk($bob_with_alice_adaptor) || (pk($alice) && older(10))
pk($carol_with_bob_adaptor) || (pk($bob)   && older(5) )
```

With taproot, the left branch can become a keypath and the right branch
can become a tapleaf.  If the payment routes successfully, Bob and Carol

> can respectively settle their parts onchain without further cooperation

Reviewer: I don't think respectively is need here:

```suggestion
can settle their parts onchain without further cooperation
```

from their counterparties, making this routed payment indistinguishable
from single-sig payments, normal multisignature payments, and
cooperatively resolved contracts.  It also minimizes the use of block
space.  Of course, if one of the refund conditions needs to be executed,

> that's still an option.

Reviewer: I think in that case, the refund transaction looks just like a scriptpath spend where the script is a pubkey + csv. That could be a lightning payment, or many other kinds of payment/transaction.

Is it right to say that even in the unhappy case, there are privacy benefits over the current HTLC construction? Or is that too much of a stretch because there will be other aspects of the transaction that give this away as an LN transaction?

Author: Actually, in this paragraph I'm not talking about LN payments specifically but any use of PTLCs.  The transition back to generic PTLCs isn't really clear in the text, sorry.  I'll see if I can fix that and also note that there is still some privacy benefit.

(FWIW, I don't think LN would use the very simple PTLC construction in this post; LN-penalty requires more script stuff and Eltoo uses CLTV in a weird way plus anyprevout, either of which will probably make identification trivial.  But hey, that's why we have a post from ZmnSCPxj next week.  :-)

> In next week's column, a guest post from one of our favorite LN

Reviewer: nice teaser :)

LN payments, onchain coinswaps, or a hybrid onchain/offchain system like
Lightning Loop---it's this flexibility that makes HTLCs so widely used.

Alice wants to pay Carol by routing a payment through Bob, who neither
Alice nor Carol wants to trust.  Carol creates a random preimage and hashes
it with the SHA256 algorithm.  Carol gives the hash to Alice and keeps
the preimage secret.  Alice initiates a payment
to Bob which he can claim with a signature for his public key plus the
preimage; alternatively, Alice can receive a refund after 10 blocks by
spending the transaction back to herself with a signature for her public
key.  Here's that [policy][htlc1 minsc] described in the Minsc language:

```hack
(pk($bob) && sha256($preimage)) || (pk($alice) && older(10))
```

Bob can now initiate a payment for the same amount (perhaps minus fees) to
Carol with basically the same script, only with the parties
[updated][htlc2 minsc] and a lower refund time out.

```hack
(pk($carol) && sha256($preimage)) || (pk($bob) && older(5))
```

Now Carol can claim her payment from Bob within five blocks by using the preimage, which
reveals the preimage to Bob and allows him to claim the payment from

> Alice, also within at least five block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alice, also within at least five blocks.
```

### Privacy problems with HTLCs

If the scripts above are published onchain, the reuse of the same hash
and preimage makes it immediately clear that A paid C via
B.  This can be a significant problem for same-chain and cross-chain
coinswaps.  Less obviously, this is also a problem for offchain routing
protocols like LN.  If we imagine a longer routing path where one person
controls multiple hops along the path, they can see the reuse of
the same hash and preimage to determine that some nodes are routing
nodes, increasing the probability that the remaining nodes are either
the spender or the receiver.   This is one part of the *linkability
problem* that may be LN's greatest current privacy weakness.

![Illustration of HTLC linkability problem](/img/posts/2021-07-ln-linkability1.dot.png)

Although [multipath payments][topic multipath payments] partially

> mitigates other aspects of LN's linkability problem, e.g. payment amount

Reviewer 2: Not positive saying it out loud, but doesn't the plural payments agree with singular the verb mitigate?

```suggestion
mitigate other aspects of LN's linkability problem, e.g. payment amount
```
